---
layout: post
title: "The Things I Learned on My First Week of Internship"
author: vcaballero
categories: 
- internship
---
The very first day of the internship started, and as expected my heart beated fast. Upon entering at the Company, I was greeted with a serious aura. The employees were so busy that all you can hear was the typing sound, as a rookie started to feel intimidated by their professionalism. And that feeling was soon to vanish as our mentor arrived. 

His name is sir. Raymond Olavides. When he arrived, my heart started to race even faster and started to feel like there was a helicopter inside my chest, but as soon as the introduction started my chest started to calm down a bit since sir was so calm and respectful, composed yet so warm. I felt comfortable talking with him because it felt like I was talking to my dad, he also gave us a lot of tips to cope faster. Now the intimidation was changed into determination, I want to be like them, I want to have the skills, the mentality, and the professionalism. After the introduction, he then gave us our designated laptop, which was a Mac. I have not tried working with a Mac before so that was another challenge to cope with. Sir then tasked us with activities, to be familiarized ourselves with the laptop's controls. Towards the near end of our shift, sir made us search about virtualization and containers. But because I was not listening keenly I heard "Visualization" instead of virtualization, so when sir asked us to explain what they are I answered the wrong question I was embarrassed. But sir just laughed, and said "paminaw lagi". So I just laughed and I was not embarrassed anymore. So the first day of the internship taught me the basics of operating a Mac laptop, to listen carefully, and that there is a very long road ahead to becoming a software engineer. As the first day of the internship comes to an end, sir gave us an assignment. It was about making an article regarding our first day of internship. 

The second day of the internship started, and as soon as we arrived at the office we opened the laptop, and started to retype the contents of the assignment that sir gave us yesterday. Sir then noticed us and told us that we should just email the assignments we made to ourselves and copy-paste the contents, and we must work smart, not hard. This day I learned how to use the terminal, I learned how to use the brew command and I installed a bunch of applications using this command. On the third day of the internship started, I read a lot of articles this day and learned a lot of valuable lessons. The articles we read were about how to communicate properly, how to debug effectively, and the Cathedral and Bazaar. The 4th day of the internship was a lot more intense than the previous days. Sir asked us to create a semantic HTML. I didn't know what a semantic HTML is. But I still tried to make one. But it turns out that my attempt was okay but not good enough, what I did can't be called a semantic HTML. Even though I failed, sir remained composed and gave us tips on improving even further. On the fourth day, I learned to be more careful and precise about my input. 

Overall the 1st week was an eye-opening journey, I learned a lot of valuable lessons, on how to improve both skill-wise and mental-wise. I will surely treasure this moment, and ensure to continue developing.
